docs/code.rst, before:

Code / API
==========

Operators
---------
Operators allow for generation of certain types of tasks that become nodes in
the DAG when instantiated. All operators derive from BaseOperator and
inherit many attributes and methods that way. Refer to the BaseOperator
documentation for more details.

There are 3 main types of operators:

- Operators that performs an **action**, or tell another system to
  perform an action
- **Transfer** operators move data from one system to another
- **Sensors** are a certain type of operator that will keep running until a
  certain criterion is met. Examples include a specific file landing in HDFS or
  S3, a partition appearing in Hive, or a specific time of the day. Sensors
  are derived from ``BaseSensorOperator`` and run a poke
  method at a specified ``poke_interval`` until it returns ``True``.

BaseOperator
''''''''''''
All operators are derived from ``BaseOperator`` and acquire much
functionality through inheritance. Since this is the core of the engine,
it's worth taking the time to understand the parameters of ``BaseOperator``
to understand the primitive features that can be leveraged in your
DAGs.


.. autoclass:: airflow.models.BaseOperator


BaseSensorOperator
'''''''''''''''''''
All sensors are derived from ``BaseSensorOperator``. All sensors inherit
the ``timeout`` and ``poke_interval`` on top of the ``BaseOperator``
attributes.

.. autoclass:: airflow.operators.sensors.BaseSensorOperator


Operator API
''''''''''''

.. automodule:: airflow.operators
    :show-inheritance:
    :members:
        BashOperator,
        BranchPythonOperator,
        DummyOperator,
        EmailOperator,
        ExternalTaskSensor,
        GenericTransfer,
        HdfsSensor,
        Hive2SambaOperator,
        HiveOperator,
        HivePartitionSensor,
        HiveToDruidTransfer,
        HiveToMySqlTransfer,
        SimpleHttpOperator,
        HttpSensor,
        MsSqlOperator,
        MsSqlToHiveTransfer,
        MySqlOperator,
        MySqlToHiveTransfer,
        PostgresOperator,
        PrestoCheckOperator,
        PrestoIntervalCheckOperator,
        PrestoValueCheckOperator,
        PythonOperator,
        S3KeySensor,
        S3ToHiveTransfer,
        ShortCircuitOperator,
        SlackAPIOperator,
        SlackAPIPostOperator,
        SqlSensor,
        SubDagOperator,
        TimeSensor


Community-contributed Operators
'''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''

.. automodule:: airflow.contrib.operators
    :show-inheritance:
    :members:
        VerticaOperator,
        VerticaToHiveTransfer

.. _macros:

Macros
---------
Here's a list of variables and macros that can be used in templates


Default Variables
'''''''''''''''''
The Airflow engine passes a few variables by default that are accessible
in all templates

=================================   ====================================
Variable                            Description
=================================   ====================================
``{{ ds }}``                        the execution date as ``YYYY-MM-DD``
``{{ yesterday_ds }}``              yesterday's date as  ``YYYY-MM-DD``
``{{ tomorrow_ds }}``               tomorrow's date as  ``YYYY-MM-DD``
``{{ ds }}``                        the execution date as ``YYYY-MM-DD``
``{{ execution_date }}``            the execution_date, (datetime.datetime)
``{{ dag }}``                       the DAG object
``{{ task }}``                      the Task object
``{{ macros }}``                    a reference to the macros package, described below
``{{ task_instance }}``             the task_instance object
``{{ ds_nodash }}``                 the execution date as ``YYYYMMDD``
``{{ end_date }}``                  same as ``{{ ds }}``
``{{ latest_date }}``               same as ``{{ ds }}``
``{{ ti }}``                        same as ``{{ task_instance }}``
``{{ params }}``                    a reference to the user-defined params dictionary
``{{ task_instance_key_str }}``     a unique, human-readable key to the task instance
                                    formatted ``{dag_id}_{task_id}_{ds}``
``conf``                            the full configuration object located at
                                    ``airflow.configuration.conf`` which
                                    represents the content of your
                                    ``airflow.cfg``
=================================   ====================================

Note that you can access the object's attributes and methods with simple
dot notation. Here are some examples of what is possible:
``{{ task.owner }}``, ``{{ task.task_id }}``, ``{{ ti.hostname }}``, ...
Refer to the models documentation for more information on the objects'
attributes and methods.

Macros
''''''
These macros live under the ``macros`` namespace in your templates.

.. automodule:: airflow.macros
    :show-inheritance:
    :members:

.. automodule:: airflow.macros.hive
    :show-inheritance:
    :members:

.. _models_ref:

Models
------

Models are built on top of the SQLAlchemy ORM Base class, and instances are
persisted in the database.


.. automodule:: airflow.models
    :show-inheritance:
    :members: DAG, BaseOperator, TaskInstance, DagBag, Connection

Hooks
-----
.. automodule:: airflow.hooks
    :show-inheritance:
    :members:
        DbApiHook,
        HiveCliHook,
        HiveMetastoreHook,
        HiveServer2Hook,
        HttpHook,
        DruidHook,
        MsSqlHook,
        MySqlHook,
        PostgresHook,
        PrestoHook,
        S3Hook,
        SqliteHook

Community contributed hooks
'''''''''''''''''''''''''''

.. automodule:: airflow.contrib.hooks
    :show-inheritance:
    :members:
        VerticaHook,
        FTPHook

Executors
---------
Executors are the mechanism by which task instances get run.

.. automodule:: airflow.executors
    :show-inheritance:
    :members: LocalExecutor, CeleryExecutor, SequentialExecutor

Community-contributed executors
'''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''

.. automodule:: airflow.contrib.executors
    :show-inheritance:
    :members:
        MesosExecutor

Commit message:

Squashed Fixing jobs
Lining up db revisions

Adding CRUD in the admin

Success, backend running, next is UI changes

Updating the docs to reflect the new behavior

Got the UI to show externaly triggered runs, root object for DAG Run

UI improvments, mostly functional

DAG concurrency limit

Commit resets dag runs

More unit tests

Adapting the UI

Fixing brutal amount of merge conflicts

Polish around UI and events

Adding DB migration script

Fixed the charts

Adding schedule info in the dag page

Adding cron presets

Fixing up the tests

Adding @once as a schedule_interval option

A layer of polish and bug fixes

docs/code.rst, after:

API Reference
=============

Operators
---------
Operators allow for generation of certain types of tasks that become nodes in
the DAG when instantiated. All operators derive from BaseOperator and
inherit many attributes and methods that way. Refer to the BaseOperator
documentation for more details.

There are 3 main types of operators:

- Operators that performs an **action**, or tell another system to
  perform an action
- **Transfer** operators move data from one system to another
- **Sensors** are a certain type of operator that will keep running until a
  certain criterion is met. Examples include a specific file landing in HDFS or
  S3, a partition appearing in Hive, or a specific time of the day. Sensors
  are derived from ``BaseSensorOperator`` and run a poke
  method at a specified ``poke_interval`` until it returns ``True``.

BaseOperator
''''''''''''
All operators are derived from ``BaseOperator`` and acquire much
functionality through inheritance. Since this is the core of the engine,
it's worth taking the time to understand the parameters of ``BaseOperator``
to understand the primitive features that can be leveraged in your
DAGs.


.. autoclass:: airflow.models.BaseOperator


BaseSensorOperator
'''''''''''''''''''
All sensors are derived from ``BaseSensorOperator``. All sensors inherit
the ``timeout`` and ``poke_interval`` on top of the ``BaseOperator``
attributes.

.. autoclass:: airflow.operators.sensors.BaseSensorOperator


Operator API
''''''''''''

.. automodule:: airflow.operators
    :show-inheritance:
    :members:
        BashOperator,
        BranchPythonOperator,
        DummyOperator,
        EmailOperator,
        ExternalTaskSensor,
        GenericTransfer,
        HdfsSensor,
        Hive2SambaOperator,
        HiveOperator,
        HivePartitionSensor,
        HiveToDruidTransfer,
        HiveToMySqlTransfer,
        SimpleHttpOperator,
        HttpSensor,
        MsSqlOperator,
        MsSqlToHiveTransfer,
        MySqlOperator,
        MySqlToHiveTransfer,
        PostgresOperator,
        PrestoCheckOperator,
        PrestoIntervalCheckOperator,
        PrestoValueCheckOperator,
        PythonOperator,
        S3KeySensor,
        S3ToHiveTransfer,
        ShortCircuitOperator,
        SlackAPIOperator,
        SlackAPIPostOperator,
        SqlSensor,
        SubDagOperator,
        TimeSensor


Community-contributed Operators
'''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''

.. automodule:: airflow.contrib.operators
    :show-inheritance:
    :members:
        VerticaOperator,
        VerticaToHiveTransfer

.. _macros:

Macros
---------
Here's a list of variables and macros that can be used in templates


Default Variables
'''''''''''''''''
The Airflow engine passes a few variables by default that are accessible
in all templates

=================================   ====================================
Variable                            Description
=================================   ====================================
``{{ ds }}``                        the execution date as ``YYYY-MM-DD``
``{{ yesterday_ds }}``              yesterday's date as  ``YYYY-MM-DD``
``{{ tomorrow_ds }}``               tomorrow's date as  ``YYYY-MM-DD``
``{{ ds }}``                        the execution date as ``YYYY-MM-DD``
``{{ execution_date }}``            the execution_date, (datetime.datetime)
``{{ dag }}``                       the DAG object
``{{ task }}``                      the Task object
``{{ macros }}``                    a reference to the macros package, described below
``{{ task_instance }}``             the task_instance object
``{{ ds_nodash }}``                 the execution date as ``YYYYMMDD``
``{{ end_date }}``                  same as ``{{ ds }}``
``{{ latest_date }}``               same as ``{{ ds }}``
``{{ ti }}``                        same as ``{{ task_instance }}``
``{{ params }}``                    a reference to the user-defined params dictionary
``{{ task_instance_key_str }}``     a unique, human-readable key to the task instance
                                    formatted ``{dag_id}_{task_id}_{ds}``
``conf``                            the full configuration object located at
                                    ``airflow.configuration.conf`` which
                                    represents the content of your
                                    ``airflow.cfg``
``run_id``                          the ``run_id`` of the current DAG run
``dag_run``                         a reference to the DAG run object
=================================   ====================================

Note that you can access the object's attributes and methods with simple
dot notation. Here are some examples of what is possible:
``{{ task.owner }}``, ``{{ task.task_id }}``, ``{{ ti.hostname }}``, ...
Refer to the models documentation for more information on the objects'
attributes and methods.

Macros
''''''
These macros live under the ``macros`` namespace in your templates.

.. automodule:: airflow.macros
    :show-inheritance:
    :members:

.. automodule:: airflow.macros.hive
    :show-inheritance:
    :members:

.. _models_ref:

Models
------

Models are built on top of the SQLAlchemy ORM Base class, and instances are
persisted in the database.


.. automodule:: airflow.models
    :show-inheritance:
    :members: DAG, BaseOperator, TaskInstance, DagBag, Connection

Hooks
-----
.. automodule:: airflow.hooks
    :show-inheritance:
    :members:
        DbApiHook,
        HiveCliHook,
        HiveMetastoreHook,
        HiveServer2Hook,
        HttpHook,
        DruidHook,
        MsSqlHook,
        MySqlHook,
        PostgresHook,
        PrestoHook,
        S3Hook,
        SqliteHook

Community contributed hooks
'''''''''''''''''''''''''''

.. automodule:: airflow.contrib.hooks
    :show-inheritance:
    :members:
        VerticaHook,
        FTPHook

Executors
---------
Executors are the mechanism by which task instances get run.

.. automodule:: airflow.executors
    :show-inheritance:
    :members: LocalExecutor, CeleryExecutor, SequentialExecutor

Community-contributed executors
'''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''

.. automodule:: airflow.contrib.executors
    :show-inheritance:
    :members:
        MesosExecutor
